---
title: Meatloaf
date: 2014-08-11 22:02:00 -500
categories: ['meatloaf']
tags: ['ground beef', 'buffalo', 'onion', 'bell pepper', 'red', 'pablano', 'almond meal', 'egg', 'mustard powder', 'sage', 'parsley', 'salt', 'Worcestershire', 'smoked paprika', 'soy sauce', 'tamari', 'heavy cream', 'mozzarella', 'ground black pepper', 'marinara sauce', 'sugar free ketchup', 'BBQ sauce', 'unsalted butter', 'celery', 'carrot', 'green onion', 'garlic', 'Italian sausage', 'parsley leaves', 'dice', 'mix', 'preheat', 'bake', 'melt']
---

## Short Version {#short_version}



### Ingredients



-   1 pound ground beef or buffalo

-   1 medium onion, diced very-very small

-   1/2 bell pepper or 1 red or pablano diced very small

-   1 cup almond meal

-   1 egg, lightly beaten

-   1 teaspoon mustard powder

-   1 teaspoon sage

-   1 tablespoon parsley

-   1 teaspoon salt

-   1 teaspoon Worcestershire

-   1 teaspoon smoked paprika (optional)

-   1 teaspoon soy sauce or tamari

-   1-2 tablespoons heavy cream

-   3/4 cup mozzarella

-   1 dash ground black pepper

-   2/3 cup marinara sauce (you can also use sugar free ketchup and or

    BBQ sauce and skip the cheese)



### Directions



1.  Preheat an oven to 350F.

2.  Thoroughly mix all ingredients except sauce and cheese in large

    bowl.

3.  Put mixture into a non-stick loaf in pan. Apply sauce to the top and

    then cheese.

4.  Bake for 1 hour.

5.  Let stand 10 minutes before serving.



## Long Version {#long_version}



### Ingredients {#ingredients_1}



-   2 Tbsp unsalted butter

-   1 finely chopped medium onion

-   1 celery stalk, finely chopped

-   1 carrot, finely chopped (optional)

-   1/2 cup of finely chopped green onion, including the green onion

    greens

-   3 cloves garlic, minced (about 1 Tbsp)

-   1.5-2 teaspoon salt

-   1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper

-   2 teaspoons Worcestershire sauce

-   2/3 cup marinara sauce

-   1 pounds of ground beef

-   1-2 links ground pork sausage uncased

-   1 cup almond meal

-   2 large eggs, beaten slightly

-   1/3 cup parsley leaves



### Recipe



1.  Preheat oven to 350° F, with a rack in the middle of the oven.

2.  Melt the butter in a large skillet on medium heat. When the butter

    starts to foam, add the finely chopped onions, celery, carrot, green

    onions and garlic to the pan and cook for 5 minutes. Cover the pan

    and cook for another 5 minutes, until the carrots are tender,

    stirring every so often. Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Add the

    Worcestershire sauce. Cook for another minute and remove from heat

    to cool.

3.  Once the vegetables have cooled to the touch, place them in a large

    bowl with the ground beef, Italian sausage, eggs, almond meal, and

    parsley. Mix evenly (with a KitchenAid mixer if possible).

4.  Place the meatloaf mixture into a loaf pan and press to make compact

    in the pan. Or you can form a free-standing loaf onto a rimmed

    baking pan. Cover the meatloaf with marinara then and mozzarella.

5.  Bake for 1 hour at 350°F, or until a meat thermometer inserted into

    the center of the meatloaf reads 155°F. Remove from oven and let sit

    for 10 minutes. Then use a metal spatula to gently lift the meatloaf

    out of the loaf pan to a serving plate.



**Adapted From:**



-   [Classic Meatloaf](http://www.simplyrecipes.com/recipes/classic_meatloaf/)

